---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-04-14T22:30:33.195Z'
dateModified: '2016-04-14T22:30:32.486Z'
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
title: ''
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-04-14-17833794-31b9-4554-8aca-1c432575b984.md
published: true
url: 17833794-31b9-4554-8aca-1c432575b984/index.html
_type: Article

---
"I am Large I contain
Magnitudes"

-Walt Whitman

When Whitman
wrote this sentence, he was referring to the enormity of the individual's soul.
Today, in a world where "God is dead", some may read that sentence and feel
nostalgia because now we are just a brain. We have traded in an infinite soul
for three pounds of grey matter. But just as science taketh, it also giveth, and
with the discover of the microbiome, we can now read Whitman's words with empathy.

The microbiome is
the collection of genetic information, from the nearly 10,000 different species
of microbes that exist in every human body. At a ratio of 100 to 1, these genes
comprise that fast majority of genetic information that is contained in the
human body. Thus, it should come as no surprise that it is now thought to play
a huge part in human health; aiding metabolism, the digestive system and many
other crucial bodily functions. 

Just as genomics
is leading to personal health care, so too will microbiomics, however the
vehicles of this new technology may be vastly different. With CRISPR it is
clear that gene therapy will be done using gene-editing technologies, which has
caused a quick saturation of the gene-editing space, in the form of countless
VC funded startups. Microbiomics lays nascent. 

One of the most
important parts of the human microbiome, is the exterior; skin and hair. The health
of the human hair and skin that we all obsess over, often at the expense of our
interior wellbeing, has now been discovered to be largely impacted by the
microbiome. A new company, Mother Dirt,
is bringing microbiomics to the cosmetics industry. As a personal user of their
products, I can promise you that no luxury French brand is going to deliver the
results that science backed Mother Dirt can give you. Their AO+ Mist uses 

Ammonia Oxidizing Bacteria that is proven to help keep the skin's
microbiome healthy, which makes your skin less oily, more hydrated and all
around more vibrant.

Hopefully, Mother Dirt will continue to come out with more great
microbiome cosmetics; microbiome tooth paste anyone? If they can get the proper
attention, well defined branding and financial backing, I see no reason why
Mother Dirt and other first movers can't cause large disruption in the cosmetics
industry, which estimated to be worth $265 billion by 2017\. Try out Mother Dirt's
lineup and take care of the magnitude that is you.

Acquisition or Die: L'Oréal